Except for the discussion in the car riding back that night and for occasional conversation
in which it was clear that General Lawden was gradually being removed from the scene by
being ordered to stay away from hearings and not to go on the screen with a stripper.
I believe that this was the most specific conversation for that night in the next day,
December 18th that I had with General Lawden there.
I want you to tell a committee about the conversation of the 18th.
Yes, sir.
Lieutenant Carr told me that he had talked with the General and received the General's permission
to listen to what I had to say.
I invited Lieutenant Carr to come into New York to see me the next day, to be separated.
I very am now want you to tell about the conversation in the events of December 18th.
Lieutenant Carr, I believe, would be separate these things to see me.
With round lunch time, he met me.
We went out to lunch and we had a long talk.
In the course of that talk, I told Lieutenant Carr about the lunch and with Mr. Haddock,
the previous day, I believe, about the argument we had had about General Lawden,
about what Mr. Stevens and Mr. Haddock were trying to prove, the General Lawden.
I discussed some of these other charges which Mr. Haddock made against General Lawden.
An Astro-Tennon Carr, what he knew about them.
Lieutenant Carr said that he of his first hand knowledge knew them to be untrue,
that General Lawden had always done an outstanding job in a great American
and a great general and a great commanding officer.
Now, I discussed this at some length with Lieutenant Carr and at the conclusion of the conversation,
I asked Lieutenant Carr if by any chance, Lieutenant McCarty did not get through to General Lawden on the phone.
I asked Lieutenant Carr to convey to General Lawden the respect of the senator.
In fact, the senator believed General Lawden had done an outstanding job for this country
in trying to protect the secret radar laboratory that caught my mind.
And that if he were to be punished for that job, he would not be without defenders.
That was the substance of my conversation to Lieutenant Carr on December the 18th.
Mr. Cohn, does that compete in General Lawden's story?
For this extensor, there were other combinations there after the January 1st pocket date was set.
Lieutenant McCarty asked me about it.
It turned out, by the way, so that he had reached General Lawden on the telephone
and that's spoken with himself too.
So General Lawden had worked in both ways.
There was more discussion with Mr. Adam, the upshot of a wise, Lieutenant McCarty was going to make a fight
if action was taken against General Lawden.
Now Mr. Cohn, I want you to go to the committee about a map of December 9th.
Are which were gone on approximately that date?
Yes.
It was as best I can fix at the 8th or the 9th, with that old couple of days when we had the Aaron Coleman public sessions for Committee down here.
Where did that incident take place?
The incident started in the corridor outside of room 101, air for the hearing, and continued inside the room.
Without my asking you specific questions, Mr. Cohn, just started in the beginning and chronologically related to the committee,
the incidents of that day and with this map figured.
Well, there were a number of incidents that they saw as far as the map incidents.
Let's start with the first incident that day, whether it's related to the map or whether it is very well.
There was a discussion about Shine on that day.
Mr. Adams talked to Mr. Cohn, talked to Mr. Cohn, and talked to me, said that he was close to making a decision on where Shine would go after basic training.
And Mr. Adams was very much disappointed that the committee had not stopped adhering from Fort Monlin that they were going on,
and thought we had not been getting him throughout him any time of a break.
He, by the way, he would refer to Private Shine as a hostage, he would, and he did, and he did that frequently.
Don't you have now injected the name of Private Shine in your testimony, Mr. Cohn? I wonder how you're going to ask you whether or not.
From time to time, over the course of these weeks and months that we've been talking about,
Mr. Adams, Mr. Cohn, this mention the name of Shine.
We mentioned the names of them, and they mentioned the names to us.
Yes.
I will ask you whether or not, without being specific of this time, from time to time, Mr. Adams refers to Shine as a hostage.
He called them by that name and the hostage more frequently than he called them by the name of Shine.
State whether or not, from time to time, while the Secretary and his counsel were attempting to get you to discontinue your investigation of Fort Monlin,
they made certain statements with respect to certain things they expected to or would do for David Shine.
As far as Mr. Adams is concerned, the answer is he did.
Did he do it?
Yes.
My wife, with the far as Mr. Cohn's concerned, any discussions I ever had with him were on a completely friendly basis,
and I found them always to be a gentleman and more than courteous to me.
I will ask you whether or not, in these conversations particularly, the ones have been reading by Mr. Adams with respect to both.
Mr. General often, the relieving him of his command and with respect to you, this continuing the investigation of the person's report,
or the former, whether or not Mr. Adams from time to time, bought in the name of David Shine.
He did.
They were discussions about Shine.
They were initiated by Mr. Adams on a number of occasions.
They were initiated by me on other occasions.
They were a mixture of the two subjects.
They were a intertwining of the two subjects.
The two subjects are done by you, you say very frankly.
I do.
And some time, by the end of the fandom.
Yes, sir.
Now Mr. Cohn, we'd like to see more about that later, but I want you to tell the committee the incidents now December 9th after the Shine conversation.
Mr. Adams had fixed in his mind, sir, the idea that there was one particular army project which we were about to investigate next.
Well, there was always something coming up.
There was always going to be one which was going to be next.
Frankly, I didn't know what Mr. Adams was talking about at that point.
But Mr. Adams thought he knew about something we were about to investigate.
He asked me to let him in on it.
Tell him where, what the project was.
I told him I couldn't tell him because I could not tell him because I couldn't.
I didn't know any particular one to which he was referring.
And one the time came, I would certainly tell him about it.
Mr. Adams still thought that I was holding something back.
And he said, I'll tell you what I'll do with you.
Then we were still in the hall, by the way.
We were there, on the way down from the hearing room to the office.
We had a sheet of paper and saw a map of the United States and divided it into,
I believe, a thickened nine, with 9 or 10, the thickened nine, fixed in my mind.
Nine sections, a nine area.
So to me, you marked on this map the location of the army place which you're going to investigate next.
And I'm going to mark down the location of an Air Force base where there are a large number of six VVAs
which will make very good hearing for your committee.
Do you know why such a chooses rather that shall we pay to lift a thickened information from the military?
No, sir. I did not take that. I did not, that didn't bother me.
And Mr. Adams was constantly asking us about what we were going to investigate.
90, 90, 90, the great use of time, it was somewhat childish to resort to specific methods of
a particular triangle, it was in place.
So, the side of the record of the point, well, in fact, there was a truth deal of joking and practical jokes.
Another time, following fact and sports between Mr. Adams and myself, who was that amount at all?
That was drawn in the corridor outside of room 101. And then Mr. Adams walked on into the room with us and the discussion was continued.
I remember him that he started drawing the map outside up against the post-outside of the room.
How many army areas are there in the United States? I don't know, sir.
You're going to whether they're a nine or not, I do not.
I'm sure we can find that out.
Anyway, your recollection is both of the fairly accurate representation of the United States.
I mean to a map which you certainly could have been, was intended to be the United States and the drawing was not that bad.
And this is made you see approximately eight or nine, I guess the number nine is in my mind, sir.
I'm trying to finish it all, sir.
But if you would devolves the meal, clear your next area of operations while the he and her with their votes to you, an area in which there were all the sexual in the army and the airport, in the airport.
That's right.
What did he say to the cone about you going out to the airport?
These were homosexuals.
I don't remember any extended discussion about that. He was just going to trade us with the piece of information for something that he wants.
Did you then have any information about homosexuals in the airport?
No.
Did you trade with him?
So it didn't strike a bargain?
No, it was not a unnecessary one to make it trade. If there was anything you should have known about, when the time came, we always did what it was in class.
I did not know what he would have been doing.
Mr. Carr, would you unmedicine?
Yes.
Mr. Cohn, as I recall your testimony, that's the third time that this man had him suggested to use the grace of the airports as an agent.
That's right.
But the first time I recall, there were a number of occasions.
It was a constant topic. When I say constant, maybe that's a fully chosen word. It was a tough on occasion.
You heard Mr. Adams' version of the mass into them with these number 9.
Yes, I heard his version.
He says that yours is the correct version.
I do.
Is that right?
Yes, sir.
Anything else to curl on December 9th, does any significance to him?
He's kept not only issues with him, but he was I recall, often.
When was your next meeting with Mr. Adams?
All of his secretary meetings.
I don't think I ever saw Secretary Steven answer the 17th of November.
I don't think I ever saw him or talked to him again.
You saw Mr. Adams right through the 17th of November.
I did.
He was schooled.
After 17th of November?
Yes.
I would imagine it would be, I don't think I saw him between the 17th of November and sometime in January.
Would that be January the 14th?
Is that mean?
I have to be.
It might very well have been there.
I don't know whether I saw him between December 17th and January 14th.
Well, I think whether or not I've owner about January 14th or a pressure recollection.
Mr. Adams seemed to be your office.
And Mr. Mean Gray was respect to what would happen if the dated shine was sent over to you.
It doesn't happen quite that way, sir, but he did come to our office and there was a conversation.
Well, Mr. Cohn, at that time, did or not, Adam state anything about the possibility of probability of safe shine being sent over to you?
He said, did he ask what is substance, what is your reaction with the use of the thing, what is happening?
No, sir.
He was telling us what his reaction was going to be.
Other things didn't happen.
Well, what made you just tell the conversation in full of January 14th?
Yes, I go.
I've got to go back to one brief moment.
Thank you.
On the Royal people.
You remember, sir, that I told you that from the third of September on, it's fairly frequent intervals.
Senator McCarthy has made it clear, privately and publicly, that until he could get in before the committee,
the people responsible for the clearing of communists and people with communist records,
he could not conclude the investigation and could not get down to the bottom of the trouble.
On December 16th, we have before the committee in public session a witness named Samuel Snyder.
Mr. Snyder has been cleared by the Pentagon's Royal Debord about a year before.
When he appeared before our committee a year later, he involved the Fifth Amendment on grounds of self-confirmination
about his association with a well-known member of the communist conspiracy.
The record was quite impressive.
And Senator McCarthy, at that point, expressed to believe that he had seen just about enough and it was certainly inconceivable to him how a man with such a record,
a man who had been found whose suspension had been ordered by a lower Royal Debord, could be reinstated and given a security clearance by the top treaty board in the Department of the Army.
Senator McCarthy, I believe in public session, insisted upon the name of the people in the Royal Debord who had cleared this man's knight.
He got some of them and the promise not from the army, but from Mr. Snyder himself.
He got some of the names and a promise from Mr. Snyder's council, but he would get all of the names.
On that occasion, Senator McCarthy told Mr. Adams that we were going, the committee was going into a three-port writing period,
which would take about a month before the appropriation of the committee was up.
And we filed our annual report, but just about the first order of the assay of those reports were out of the way, and hearings were resumed.
What would be the summoning of people connected with this Royal Debord and clearance, and Mr. Adams was very much discerrified by that.
He had been told by me over the phone, some by other staff members, at the beginning of January, that the date for production of some of these Royal Debord members would be around between the middle and the end of January, sometimes when the report writing was finished.
On January 14th, to come right to that, it's good running it.
You want me to tell you about the time, now you're pulling out about to the members' Royal report.
Just a thought, if they get an investigation on them, that's they get in the January 14th conversation.
Very well. You want me to tell you, sir, what was that on January 14th?
Yes. The committee would be very much interested to that in the year.
On January 14th, it's our recall.
And I can't swear through the date. It's the 13th and 14th around that time. Mr. Adams is at the 14th, I have no reason to doubt that date.
Mr. Adams paid a call on me and on Mr. Car.
He discussed the stopping of hearings, the court monitor.
He didn't want the members of the Royal Debord to clear the month, people called.
He wanted the investigation stop, the usual ground, which was covered.
Why did he not want the members of the Royal Board to call Mr. Cum, did he take it?
Yes, there were several reasons there. He said that.
And he had said on other occasions that there were elements of personal embarrassment connected with it to insult and Mr. C.
Did I understand you could see a moment of the growth of one of the members of the Royal Board have taken the fifth amendment?
No, sir. No member had ever taken the fifth amendment as far as I know.
One has been questioned by us on October 30th in New York about a record of communication with communist activity.
In the way on January 14th, what I said Mr. Jenkins was, that this Royal people had had cleared people.
So after that clearance has taken the fifth amendment, which was a pretty good evidence of the fact that they shouldn't have been cleared.
On January 14th, Mr. Adams objected to the investigation of the month, continuing as he did.
And do you calling members who are ready to move before you can be fired?
Yes, sir. He objected to the Fourth Amendment investigation continuing, and particularly the vast pot of it, which would entail the calling of members of the Royal Debord.
They're left.
Now, I want you to tell all of the court on that date.
Well, he came over to the office. We talked, we had lunch, and went back to the office, and we booked the morgue.
And then all the whole lot was set.
He told us that he was very, very unhappy about the way the Fourth Amendment situation had been handled by us in the continuing hearing.
He said that he had hoped from the beginning that we could get the hearing to stop, could avoid them.
Now it seemed like they were going on, and Mr. Stevens was upset, that he was upset, couldn't leave Scotland in some way.
And that particularly, since we were turning to these Royal Debord and the clearance procedures, he was unhappy, and he felt that the staff of the committee,
so Mr. Caron, I, had not cooperated with Mr. Adams in trying to bring about a termination of this investigation.
Anything else, Mr. Lefty?
Yes, the way that he's shining overseas came, thing came in with this.
Mr. Adams said we had not been cooperating with him, and that he was going to show some examples of non-cooperation tool, and how would we like it, if Shine were ordered overseas?
Well, we know at that time that Shine was still in fact the training that only had done less than half of his basic training.
We knew that under the normal practice in the army, he would not be sent overseas for sometimes, the conference gave Shine to a foretick, he was going for a ticket.
And we knew that he was going, but supposedly he was going on to camp for the Georgia from there, Mr. Adams, to preview his conduct.
And we knew that there could be no basis in fact for Mr. Adams' statements that Shine was going overseas, unless Mr. Adams intended to see that that came about.
We made it clear, we didn't care whether he went overseas or didn't go overseas, but that we didn't quite understand the way Mr. Adams was ringing that in, with the suggestion that we weren't cooperating with him,
in getting this investigation started. And I would like to make what I think is a very important point on that here.
Very well, you mean me too?
Mr. Adams, in his testimony before this committee, I watched this rather closely, and I hope it's a little correct me if I'm wrong.
Described the events of January 14th, and said that the topics were Shine, and that he just came out with this statement about Shine going overseas.
I say that Mr. Adams came over and coupled the forthmanment investigation and the stopping of it with this comment about Private Shine.
And I have looked back at the Army charges, the Stephen Adams charges filed on March 11th, and this part of it, event 37 must have been prepared by Mr. Adams, because he was the only one from that side who was present.
And in that, just read that in full, Mr. Holmes, you will be glad.
Well sir, what I wanted to read is the first sentence.
First, they were...
They were so after the conversation.
I didn't have time, I didn't get to begin.
Hey, they are so after the conversation with Mr. Collins, Mr. Adams went to the Capitol, and called on Mr. Collins and Mr. Carr,
and Mr. Collins office in the Senate Investigation Subcommittee.
General discussion was had concerning the Private Shine situation and the progress of the McCarthy investigation at Fort Monk.
And I would like to point out, sir, that it is my testimony that those two subjects, who had brought up by Mr. Adams, that they were linked.
And that Mr. Adams was not the, on the level of the committee, when he failed to mention that the Fort Monk's investigation was discussed that day.
And that Mr. Adams has admitted here in his original charges that those two matters were discussed by him when he came over to visit us on that occasion.
What you are saying is, we understand that Mr. Coney is an on-general 14th Miss Adams, keen to your office.
And there at that time and on that occasion, talked about the discontinued severe investigation of Fort Monk's, he did, and talked about his objections to your subpoenaing the members of the Law and the Board for examination.
He did, and threaded in without conversation.
As I get it from you, the send they shine overseas, if you persist in investigating Fort Monk's hand in subpoenaing the members of the Law and the Board, is that correct?
I would say, sir, that is a sensible interpretation of what happened on that day.
And following that, Mr. Jenkins, of course, there were the events, the subsequent events in which Mr. Adams tried to, once the members of this committee,
and tried to get the loyalty for the subpoenaing the investigation called off, are compsying that insistence on his part that the investigation and subpoenaing the guilty would be, quote, hint, end quote, that if a poor not killed, there would be a report about me.
And you are, I take it in part, referring to the testimony of certain witnesses.
I'm referring, sir, to the statement by Senator Jackson and Senator Monk's, Senator Potter, before this committee.
And do you say, Mr. Coleman, that the straw of both the camel's back and the incident that precipitated the preparation and the filing of these tributes,
was the fact that you persisted at you, and the senator from Wisconsin, in the menu, the subpoenaing and the examination of the members of the Law and the Board, and continuing your investigation of forced monoliths, and that it was for that reason,
that these charges were proclaimed and released to the public, with respect to the allegations against you and Senator.
The only way I can answer that is this, Mr. Jenkins. This was certainly the immediate reason. I'm sure Mr. Adams's standpoint. From what come out of these hearings and from other things we know, I think it's quite clear that a number of people had a lot of different reasons for doing what they did in trying to discredit us and stop the operations of this committee.
Mr. Coleman, did you have a conversation with Senator McCarthy on the evening of January 22nd?
I did. I want you to tell the gentleman on the subcommittee about that conversation.
The substance study.
I called Senator McCarthy about the investigation we were conducting, not dealing with communist infiltration and the army.
He told me he could not talk to me and what I'd plead, call him back at 11 or 1130, something like that.
I called him back and he told me that Mr. Adams has been deceived. Mr. John Adams had been deceived in his department.
And Mr. Adams was trying to pull, I think he used the words, so say, neat little trick of blackmail and say that unless we kill the investigation,
there would be spread around a report about me, which would be embarrassing to me.
Senator McCarthy told me that on that night, I obtained further details later on.
When I spoke with the senator in person, after I obtained those details, I heard enough for me to conclude in my own mind that I can't have nothing more to do with Mr. John Adams.
Mr. Cohn, if the senator told you that night, that he refused to give me the demands of John Adams, he did.
And have you heard from the lips of Mr. Adams that it was the next day that he started to paint a list of the materials, assuming the materials.
In the law, I believe that expression has been used from Wichim Bal, and this is 34 page document known as events.
I did.
Do you recall a conversation, Mr. Cohn, in which Mr. Adams called you, and I believe maybe you were in New York City, in which he stated that you've been judging him?
I do. How much you could tell us about that?
That conversation is best I can play to Mr. Jenkins with February 12th.
Fair in mind, sir, that on January 22nd, the senator,
I'm sorry to show you.
Pardon me one minute, Mr. Cohn.
Thank you.
There's great conference which looks like it may result in the research at about this time of this afternoon session, so the committee can meet again tomorrow morning at 10 am.
That's all right.
In finishes.
Yes, sir.
That's a little bit of a problem.
No, whatever.
That's approximately five or five or not.
And we are.
Wait a minute.
Well, I think we have to determine that Wichim should be a lot better.
I'm sure the light's Christian, I'm assuming.
I'm on the February 12th phone call.
Do you want me to complete that?
I don't.
I should get you to go ahead and complete your answer.
After Senator McCarthy told me about what Mr. Adams was trying to do.
The senator told me he had told Mr. Adams he would not give in to that or any other black male threat.
I was very clear in my mind that I was not.
I decided to have nothing to do with Mr. Adams.
I know the staff members that Mr. Adams had been asking about me and falling up and wanting to know where I was in Washington.
I did not pay any attention to those calls.
On Lincoln Thursday, February 12th, Mr. Adams telephoned me at my home in New York.
He asked me why I had, he asked me if I was correct in assuming that I had been talking to him.
I told him he was very correct.
He asked me why I had been talking and why I didn't call him, why I didn't see him, why we hadn't had lunch, why we hadn't gotten together and had a talk.
Why we were out of touch.
I told Mr. Adams that very frankly the reason was because I believe that he has been thoroughly dishonored.
He asked me what I meant.
I believe I told him what I meant.
I told him that he has directly or indirectly made a black male threat
to members of the subcommittee saying that if we did not stop the investigation, he shall all subpoenas.
Mr. Adams was kind of caused an untrue report.
To be spread or circulated, I knew no details about it concerning me.
Mr. Adams at first denied that he had spoken with anyone about it.
He never admitted it.
But I told him that I knew he had certainly talked to Senator McCarthy about it.
And I knew what the senator has told me.
And that was enough for me.
Mr. Adams said that I had to understand his position.
But he had a job to do.
That he had told me all along that these loyalty boards subpoenas were going to present very, very great problems to him.
And that he would have to stop at nothing to see that the investigation was killed at that point.
And that I should try to understand what he was trying to do.
I told him I could not understand what he was trying to do.
And that just about terminated the conversation.
Very well.
We can speak for now from about tomorrow's meeting in his months as we have a distinguished guest, Harry Celeste here in Washington.
Who is addressing the strength station of Congress that has known is possible to meet that a little before 1230 or perhaps after reaching being a little after two.
But otherwise there will be no change in the revolution in his case of progress.
Senator Scott.
I guess that I will be able to be...
Senator Collins, there is not a reason to be here with his clients at home to recognize him as a senator.
We have the option of being able to share the waiting tomorrow.
But I assume that this witness will be available for a first examination on Tuesday.
I understand the committee has to be set out to the mall until next Tuesday.
There will be no session held on Monday.
I'm not correct.
I'm not yet.
The council has arrived to cheer as he believes he will require him probably all day tomorrow at least in coffee tamination.
May the chairs stay also.
That they were, that part fell to appreciation for his colleagues and both seats.
The public and democratic side of the aisle for the fact that they have been exemplary, restrained on the part of everyone today including council.
Not a single introduction, not a single point of order.
All else in no time.
May that continue?
Yes, sir.
We'll be at 10 a.m. tomorrow morning.